
000
FXUS66 KLOX 032341
AFDLOX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Los Angeles/Oxnard CA 
441 PM PDT Fri Jul 3 2026

.SYNOPSIS...03/428 PM.

Onshore flow will continue to bring low clouds to the coasts
and coastal valleys each night through morning period. Weaker 
onshore flow will mean decreasing clouds in the valleys and 
gradually warming temperatures. Expect a return to near normal 
temperatures by early next week, with potential for above normal
temperatures by mid-week.

&&

.SHORT TERM (TDY-MON)...03/146 PM.

Generally quiet weather will continue across the local area
through the short term periods with gradual warming expected each
afternoon through the Holiday weekend. As expected, the influence
of the marine layer continues to wane across inland locations as 
onshore flow weakens, although night through morning clouds will
continue to impact coastal locations each day. Temperatures early
this afternoon have ranged from the upper 60s near the coast to 
mid 80s across inland locations.

For the next several days, expect heights aloft to continue to 
rise as the trough of low pressure that has helped promote cooler 
than normal temperatures and a deep marine layer that past few 
days shift east, resulting in valley temperatures climbing into 
the mid 80s by Sunday afternoon with mid 90s across far inland 
locations. Gusty afternoon into evening winds are also expected 
across the Antelope valley each day, but should remain below 
advisory levels through the short term period.

.LONG TERM (TUE-FRI)...03/146 PM.

High pressure aloft across the four corners area early next week
will shift west through mid-week, helping to contribute to 
additional warming...with 500 mb heights peaking around 594 dam
Wednesday afternoon. A weak trough of low pressure passing by to 
the north Wednesday evening will knock down upper level heights to
end the week, before high pressure builds back across the 
southwest next weekend. 

Overall, this is a dry weather pattern for the local area with 
above normal temperatures expected through at least the end of
next week with weak onshore flow limiting the influence of the
marine layer to mainly coastal locations. At this point, 
temperatures will likely peak several degrees above normal on 
Wednesday, and remain above normal for the foreseeable future with
CPC outlooks continuing to heavily favor above normal temperatures
through at least week 2. This will result in a minor (valley) to 
moderate (far inland) heat risk across the local area. Finally, an
increased pressure gradient Tuesday through Thursday will result 
in a return to modest sundowner winds mid-week.

&&

.AVIATION...03/2339Z.

At 2230Z at KLAX, there was no marine layer. There was a surface 
based inversion was 1700 feet deep. The top of the inversion was 
3400 feet with a temperature of 22 C.

High confidence in 00Z TAFs at KWJF and KPMD.

For remaining airfields, moderate to high confidence that ceilings 
tonight into Sat morning should vary between 004 and 012. There is
a 20%-30% chance of LIFR cigs at KSMX between 11Z-14Z Sat 
morning. Timing of low clouds could be off +/- an hour or two.

KLAX...High confidence in 00Z TAF. VFR conds can be expected thru
about 04/11Z and again aft about 04/18Z. Low to mdt confidence on
low cloud return timing aft 04/11Z. No significant easterly wind 
component is expected.

KBUR...High confidence in 00Z TAF. VFR conds can be expected thru
about 04/09Z and again aft about 04/16Z. Mdt confidence in low 
cloud return timing around 04/09Z with cigs 004-007.

&&

.MARINE...03/1248 PM.

For the Outer Waters, moderate to high confidence in current 
forecast. Through Saturday, high confidence in winds and seas 
remaining below Small Craft Advisory (SCA) levels. For Sunday 
through Thursday, there is a 50-80% chance of SCA level winds. 
Seas will begin gradually increasing Sunday and will approach 
advisory levels mid-week. 

For the Inner Water north of Point Sal, moderate to high 
confidence in current forecast. Through Sunday, winds and seas 
are expected to remain below SCA levels. There is a 30% chance 
of SCA level winds on Monday and a 60% chance Tuesday & Wednesday.

For the Inner Waters south of Point Conception, moderate to high
confidence in current forecast. Through Tuesday, high confidence 
in winds and seas remaining below SCA levels for most of the 
southern Inner Waters. The only exception will be the western half
of the Santa Barbara Channel where there is a 40-60% chance of 
SCA level Sunday through Wednesday, mainly in the late afternoon 
and evening hours.

&&

.LOX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CA...NONE.
PZ...NONE.

&&

$$

PUBLIC...Rossi
AVIATION...SF
MARINE...DB/SF
SYNOPSIS...Ciliberti

weather.gov/losangeles

Experimental Graphical Hazardous Weather Outlook at:
https://www.weather.gov/erh/ghwo?wfo=lox

